well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so today we're going to talk about
a cottage industry that exists within
the news media within journalism it's an
industry that I'm sure most people know
exists but they may not understand how
it works and because they don't
understand how it works sometimes they
add two and two and come up with 17 so
we're going to talk about it
this was an industry I was a part of for
for a few years for those that don't
know I was a journalist I started as a
photojournalist this applies to not just
photojournalist but also videographers
the this same scenario it's done a
little bit different but not much so I
would go out and to an event or whatever
a newsworthy event and I would take
photos and then those photos would be
sold or licensed to various agencies
news news outlets and they would use
them now I think everybody knows this
happens what you may not know is that I
haven't photographed a protest involving
the group Anonymous in I don't know five
years they're still using the photos
file photos stock photography file
footage it's incredibly common it's used
all the time however there are those
people who see that and they say well
that photo actually happened in DC and
they're talking about a protest that
happened in LA and for some reason they
make the assumption that that means the
LA protests didn't have it it's not how
it works
media outlets today don't have bureaus
the way they used to
they don't have little offices all over
the world they count on freelancers and
if they can't get a freelancer there if
somebody doesn't show up and then offer
to sell them the photos they use stock
footage they use stock photography it's
not evidence of a conspiracy it's
evidence of the consumers desire to
constantly have visual input when you're
talking about footage now this is not an
industry I had anything to do with but
Ford Fisher from news to share this is
how he makes his living we've
interviewed him on this channel the when
you're talking about news networks major
news networks on TV they have to fill 24
hours of visual space you can only look
at somebody talking for so long you need
that other input so they will use old
footage to talk about a current event
this isn't evidence of a conspiracy it's
not this is evidence of bad news
management it should be labeled it
should be labeled ethically it should be
labeled as stock or file but it isn't
always because we have that desire for
immediate that that immediacy drives it
sometimes it gets left out this isn't a
huge thing this is an industry that has
existed for a very very long time it
used to be more agencies used to be more
consistent news outlets used to be more
consistent with labeling it as file or
stock
they don't do it as much anymore because
they assume the consumer knows knows
that that's the case it's something that
people should keep in mind because I'm
seeing a lot of let's just say theories
that are centered on this fact people
are saying well this hospital is an
overrun in Wichita or wherever yeah but
the footage said showed that it was the
footage is clearly from New York but
that's the footage they showed when they
were talking about a different City so
therefore it's fake it's not true but
that's not the case it just means that
your news outlets lazy they didn't label
it they didn't go film it for themselves
because it's a whole lot cheaper to buy
a photo or buy footage than it is to
send out your own crew a lot of these
news outlets don't even have their own
crews anymore they count on the
freelancers they count on people that
are just out there doing it I would
suggest that freelancers and I can't
really say too much about this because I
only did it one out of the years that I
was doing at the very last one put it in
their license that it gets labeled try
to hold these major outlets to an
ethical standard but that's rare and
again I only did it the last year so
it's not uncommon for this to happen
that alone is not evidence of anything
other than a misunderstanding about how
news media works anyway it's just a
thought y'all have a good day